# Overview

Published 10-18-2025

The purpose of this project was to integrate a MongoDB NoSQL database behind my previously created EZ Recipes project written in Typescript. Everything related to adding thi function has been kept in separate files which can be found at:
{list all the new files}

This project is a recipe website which accomplishes the following:
- retrieves data from a model (in this case, a .json file which was generated by AI including 10 recipes.)
- takes the data and creates objects for each recipe via a class with a constructor and methods for returning HTML as strings. 
- dynamically update HTML by using the methods found in the aforementioned Recipe class and data retrived from URL or search parameters.
- take user input to update HTML content. (Search Page)
- Includes a simple dashboard allowing a user to add, edit, or remove recipes on the site. Changes made will be reflected upon reloading the page.
- If the user wishes to access the dashboard, they will be prompted to log in if they are not logged in already. 
- Once a user is loged in, a message will appear at the top of the screen (before the header) stating that the user is logged in.
- Also, once logged in, the user will remain logged in until the DB token changes (once a day) or the user clears their localStorage (where the user's version of the token is saved.)

Demonstration of the project and further explanation:  
Code Repository: https://github.com/LMacconnell2/EZRecipes0.1

# Development Environment

VSCode is my IDE of choice. It is an industry standard and has access to many useful extensions.
Node.js - Server solution/NPM provides access to useful packages.
Express - Routing solution
EJS Modules - solution for dynamic HTML and easy insertion of variables/HTML
MongoDB - NoSQL Database solution

docker run -d -p 5000:27017 --name EZRecipesDB -e MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_USERNAME=dbAdmin -e MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_PASSWORD=asecretpassword mongo

Typescript v5.9.2

ChatGPT v4 - assistance in troubleshooting and syntax suggestions

# Useful Websites

- Typescript Language Reference: https://www.typescriptlang.org/
- Excellent Beginner's Tutorial by Mosh: https://youtu.be/d56mG7DezGs?si=Rjy2fB2w0ENsOfQA

# Future Work

- Eventually, I would like to use a database instead of a json file to house my data. that way, data can be more easily added or removed from the site.
- Currently the site only has 3 working pages. In the future, I may add additional content and capabilites to allow for users to send messages to admins, allow for user types, include a dashboard and flesh out incomplete or nonexistant routes/links.
- I had initially intended to connect an API to the site, I would lke to work with API's more in the future, including on this site.